This is one of multiple videos discussing IP version 6 rating in a previous video.
I configured these two routers to use static IPV six routes
using the local outgoing interface.
What I'll do in this typologies remove backed several and face and connect to these routers using the
ethernet interface.
So at the moment to show IPV 6 interface brief shows us that the address is configured on the serial
interface.
So what I'll do is go into the serial interface and type no IP V-6 address.
So now we don't have an IP address configured on the serial interface.
I'll do something similar on the site no IPV 6 address to show IPV 6 interface we can see that loopback
is configured with an IP V-6 address but no other addresses have been configured on any interfaces.
So what we do know is no shut the first ethernet interface and configure the IP version 6 address on
the Internet interface so IPV 6 address and the specific address show IPV 6 interface shows us that
the interface is up up the link local address used is us the global unicast address used is this the
Rodda has joined all hosts on the local segment and all routers on the local segment multicast groups
and has joined some other groups as well.
Show IP V-6 interface brief shows us the link local address as well as the global unicast address configured
on the router show IP V-6 route shows us connected route and local ront link local addresses are not
added to the writing table.
We also see information for the loop back that was previously configured on the site interface F-0 slash
is zero.
No shut IP the 6 address 2001 column one colon colon to slash 64 paing 2001 colon one colon column one
wrote two is able to ping Rotto one using the first ethernet interface show IPV six route only shows
connected and local rats in the writing table and that's true on both Brodeur's.
Now a static route does exist in the running config.
But that's not used because the local interface has gone down.
But what I'll do here
is remove that route.
You can do the same on the site
so no IPV 6 Raat
to remove the rot show IPV 6 route again shows us that we only have local and connected routes in the
running table.
So to allow rodded to ping the Lupica wrote a 1 what we would do is type IPV six route specified the
destination network which is 2001 kobun face colon.
One colon colon slash 64 we can specify an interface or the next hop IP address.
So the next top IP address is going to be 2001 Collen one colon colon on one and we can specify and
administer of distance for the rot.
I'm not going to do that show IPV six route.
We now have the static route in the writing table and we should be able to paying 2001 toll on face
call them one code on call on one and we can can write a one ping the Lupica wrote it to note at the
moment.
We have to configure around the city so IPV six raht 2001 face to slash 64 specified next hop of 2001
one to say can we paying 2000 one face to one.
Yes we can show IPV six or eight shows us the study grot in the running table but in this example its
via the next top IP address same is true over here.
So thats different to the previous example where I configured the IP V-6 static route to using the local
outgoing interface of the router.
So that was an example of how to configure IPV six static routes.
I hope you've enjoyed this video if it's been of benefit to you please like it please subscribe to my
YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.